.TH MODELCONVERTER 1 "2026-04-24" "modelconverter 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
modelconverter \- convert between glTF and Quake 3 model formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B modelconverter
.RI [ options ]
.B \-i
.I input
.B \-o
.I output
.br
.B modelconverter \-\-info \-i
.I file
.br
.B modelconverter \-\-validate \-i
.I file
.br
.B modelconverter \-\-player \-i
.I dir
.B \-o
.I output
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B modelconverter
converts between glTF 2.0 (.gltf/.glb) and Quake 3 model formats
(MD3, IQM, MDR). It supports vertex animation, skeletal animation,
player bundles, shader round-trips, mesh subdivision, decimation
and LOD generation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " " \fIpath\fR
Input model file or player directory.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIpath\fR
Output model file or directory.
.TP
.BI \-\-fps " N"
glTF animation sample rate hint (default 15).
.TP
.B \-\-skin
Emit a .skin sidecar file.
.TP
.B \-\-shader
Emit a .shader sidecar file.
.TP
.BI \-\-shader\-in " path"
Parse a Q3 .shader file and apply it to the loaded model.
.TP
.BI \-\-skin\-in " path"
Parse a Q3 .skin file and override surface\->shader mappings.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-auto\-skin
Don\(aqt auto-discover <model>_default.skin / <model>.skin.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-auto\-shader
Don\(aqt auto-discover .shader files under the asset roots.
.TP
.B \-\-player
Force player-bundle mode (auto when input is a directory).
.TP
.BI \-\-subdivide " N"
Apply N iterations of Loop subdivision.
.TP
.BI \-\-decimate " R"
QEM decimation keeping R*100% of triangles (0..1).
.TP
.BI \-\-gen\-lods " [N]"
Auto-generate N additional LOD levels (default 2; max MD3_MAX_LODS\-1).
.TP
.BI \-\-gen\-lod\-ratios " r1,r2,..."
Triangle-keep ratios per generated LOD (default 0.5,0.25).
.TP
.BI \-\-asset\-root " dir"
Add a directory (or .pk3 file) to search for textures referenced by the
model. Repeatable; defaults are derived from the input path.
.TP
.BI \-\-shader\-path " dir"
Add a directory (or .pk3 file) to scan recursively for .shader files
beyond the asset roots. Repeatable.
.TP
.BI \-\-shader\-depth " N"
Max recursion depth for shader auto-discovery (default 6).
.TP
.B \-\-info
Print info about the input and exit (no conversion).
.TP
.B \-\-validate
Run format-limit and sanity checks on the input and exit non-zero
if any issue is found (no output written).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose output.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Errors only.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help.
.SH FORMATS
MD3 (vertex animation), IQM (skeletal), MDR (skeletal, including
compressed frames), glTF 2.0 / GLB.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
modelconverter -i player.glb -o upper.md3
modelconverter --info -i upper.md3
modelconverter --player -i models/players/padman/ -o padman.glb
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
World of Padman Team
.SH LICENSE
GPL-2.0-or-later
